>>NARRATOR: A mystery repeating
radio signal from space
that scientists have
not seen before.
What or who is
sending the signal?
>>MARC DANTONIO: It's
these one-time things you
see that are really exciting.
>>NARRATOR: This Is Gaia News.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Scientists have detected a
radio signal from somewhere
out in deep space some
4,000 light years away.
The signal pulsed every
18 minutes and 18 seconds
every time.
18 minutes and 18 seconds.
It did this for three months.
Then, it stopped.
Scientists assume it was a
naturally occurring rotating
object, that, like a
lighthouse shining its beacon,
will send what appears
to be a repeating signal.
But Natasha Hurley
Walker, whose study
into this repeating
signal was recently
published in the journal
Nature, told Vice, quote,
"There are no models that
produce such bright radio
emission from two
objects in orbit
with each other
with such precision,
and any that would produce
any kind of radio waves
would also produce X-ray
emission, which we don't see."
Some think this might be coming
from a highly magnetized star
called a magnetar.
So what does this all mean?
Astronomer and Gaia news
contributor Marc Dantonio.
>>DANTONIO: Maybe
this strange signal
is some weird kind of
magnetar that is rotating.
But we're not used to
seeing it rotate 18--
every 18 minutes.
That means a rather
slow rotation
so this is kind of weird.
It's something that doesn't
match any model that we know.
And I think that it takes
us down a new research path
to try and figure out just
what it is we're looking at.
>>NARRATOR: If
this signal is not
from some type of dead
star, what else could it be?
>>DANTONIO: There
is a remote chance,
there's the remote one,
the far remote one,
that it's a techno signature.
Maybe.
OK, now, what's a
techno signature?
It's a signature from
something intelligent
that's beeping out something.
Now, repeating bursts
like this, we always
err on the side of caution and
say, well the universe rotates.
Everything rotates.
So therefore, it could
be something rotating
and flashing a hot side toward
us that has this signal in it,
like a hot spot.
So it could either
be something that's
a techno signature
that's intelligent,
or it could be a naturally
occurring strange kind
of exotic star, a magnetar.
Something along those lines.
It's really odd.
Where would it come from?
What is the origination
of something like this?
How does a star like this
form, if it's a star,
from a supernova?
There's really no
models that show us
how something like this forms.
So it is really perplexing,
and therefore, really exciting.
>>NARRATOR: What about
the pulse itself?
Could there be data within
that could be studied?
>>DANTONIO: The information
inside the pulse
is something that would
be interesting to look at.
Was it sending out
something specifically?
Was it sending a message
saying, they're coming to you,
get off your
planet, or whatever.
I don't know.
But I do know that that's
something interesting.
And I'm sure that
no one's really
looking inside the pulses
to examine the exact nature.
Sure, they are looking at the
signal, what it's doing, right?
But the signal that's
coming is a very--
it's not like it's
blowing off the airwaves.
It's a very faint signal.
But the strangeness
isn't how it's pulsing.
The strangeness
isn't why it stopped.
And the strangeness
is in the duration.
This is all new.
All new.
You know.
Every 18 minutes,
it would pulse.
And at 18 minutes 18
seconds kind of a thing.
And so that was a very
strange pulsation period.
And as quick as it came.
It was gone.
Eventually it stopped, and
no one knows why it stopped.
>>NARRATOR: What
does this discovery
mean for the big picture
future of astronomy?
>>DANTONIO: But it's
these one-time things you
see that are really exciting.
Because they could be--
literally we could be on
the cusp of some other kind
of discovery.
Either way, we are.
We are on the cusp
of another discovery.
Either discovering a
brand new natural object,
or discovering possibly
that we're not alone.
>>NARRATOR: For a new
perspective, this is Gaia News.
For more information
on this topic,
check out this content on Gaia.